Type signature description (#124)
UAVCAN/public_regulated_data_types: reg/udral/README.md

Registers that are not known to the auto-configuration authority are to be silently ignored,
which permits addition of implementation-defined ports without breaking compatibility with standard services.

#### Type signature register

In many use cases it is desirable to have the ability to statically check the compatibility between sender and 
receiver of a message. This capability could be used both during automatic configuration and by manual configurator tools.

> The design allows this by adding an extra register to every service pub/sub group that contains a string _message type signature_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The design allows this by adding an optional register per port that contains a string _data type signature_.
```

There are message types and service types. I expect your signature is applicable to both, is it not?

Author: Not yet. It should be easy to add (by adding a separator between request and reply part of the string and match both with AND condition. Tagged union implementation is not complete either.

>     uavcan.sub.main_drive.setpoint.type_sig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uavcan.pub.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.sub.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.cln.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.srv.PORT_NAME.type_sig

Where `PORT_NAME` is a placeholder defined in the
[documentation for `uavcan.register.Access`](https://github.com/UAVCAN/public_regulated_data_types/blob/b02e6899a319ddefbab41b820d167c95dd00174d/uavcan/register/384.Access.1.0.uavcan#L136-L139).
For example: `uavcan.sub.main_drive.setpoint.type_sig`
```

Would it not make sense to future-proof this by incorporating a version number into the register name, like `sig1`? Or am I overthinking it?

> Example signature would look like `(u12{u8}a5[f16]=i8)` , and be interpreted as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example signature would look like `(u12{u8}a5[f16]=i8)`, and be interpreted as
```

A slightly more formal specification would be nice.

Author: Sure, I'm just reluctant to spend more time than strictly necessary right now until we see some traction.

 - `()` delimit sealed type
 - `{}` delimit extensible type
 - `b`, `u`, `i`, `f`, `v` followed by size in bits encode primitive types
 - `a` and `A` followed by length in items and brackets encode variable and fixed size arrays
 - `=` marks byte alignment point

Sample code that generates type string from DSDL and compares two strings for compatibility can be seen at this 

> (temporary) [location](https://gitlab.com/vadimz1/dsdl-sig-gen/-/tree/main).

Reviewer: Embedding links into text like this makes the text unintelligible when copy-pasted.

```suggestion
(temporary) location: <https://gitlab.com/vadimz1/dsdl-sig-gen/-/tree/main>.
```

Author: > Embedding links into text like this makes the text unintelligible when copy-pasted.

Hmm, not sure what you are saying here - the  []() format was exactly the same as you used above with github link.

Reviewer: My point is that the text should be meaningful when copy-pasted without the embedded link. Ex: "can be seen at this temporary location" is meaningless because the referenced location is not specified, "can be seen at Vadim's GitLab" is fine because the location is specified even if the embedded hyperlink is lost.

Registers that are not known to the auto-configuration authority are to be silently ignored,
which permits addition of implementation-defined ports without breaking compatibility with standard services.

#### Type signature register

> In many use cases it is desirable to have the ability to statically check the compatibility between sender and 

Reviewer 2: A bit of a nit but also a question, "statically check" generally means compile-time. We're adding a runtime mechanism here. Should this be "dynamically check" or just "check" or am I not understanding the proposal?

Author: It is indeed a runtime check that is intended to happen once (as opposed to on every message transmission) during system initialization (or even configuration). 
Do you have any wording suggestion that would improve on "statically" and still express this distinction?

Reviewer: >"statically check" generally means compile-time

I agree with Vadim here -- I am reading "static" as a "check that is performed before the system is operational", so it is not a runtime check, strictly speaking.

receiver of a message. This capability could be used both during automatic configuration and by manual configurator tools.
The design allows this by adding an optional register per port that contains a string _data type signature_.

    uavcan.pub.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.sub.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.cln.PORT_NAME.type_sig
    uavcan.srv.PORT_NAME.type_sig

Where `PORT_NAME` is a placeholder defined in the
[documentation for `uavcan.register.Access`](https://github.com/UAVCAN/public_regulated_data_types/blob/b02e6899a319ddefbab41b820d167c95dd00174d/uavcan/register/384.Access.1.0.uavcan#L136-L139).
For example: `uavcan.sub.main_drive.setpoint.type_sig`

> Example signature would look like `(u12{u8}a5[f16]=i8)`, and be interpreted as

Reviewer 2: Let's note that this is a draft clause in the standard and that, once adopted, a formal grammar will be specified and breaking changes may occur.

Author: Ok

 - `()` delimit sealed type
 - `{}` delimit extensible type
 - `b`, `u`, `i`, `f`, `v` followed by size in bits encode primitive types
 - `a` and `A` followed by length in items and brackets encode variable and fixed size arrays
 - `=` marks byte alignment point

> Sample code that generates type string from DSDL and compares two strings for compatibility can be seen at this 

Reviewer 2: It seems like this should, if adopted, be included as an addendum to the core DSDL standard (sort of the JSON to DSDL's JavaScript, if you will). It would also be useful for self-describing data storage of log data.
